Add docs on migrating from Managed Service for TimescaleDB to Timescale Cloud (#756)
timescale/docs: cloud/migrate-mst-cloud/schema-then-data.md

# Migrate schema and data separately
Migrate larger databases by migrating your schema first, then migrating the
data. This method copies each table or chunk separately, which allows you to
restart midway if one copy operation fails.

The procedure to migrate your database requires these steps:

> *   [Migrate schema pre-data](#migrate-schema-pre-data)
> *   [Restore hypertables in Timescale Cloud](#restore-hypertables-in-timescale-cloud)
> *   [Copy data from Managed Service for TimescaleDB](#copy-data-from-managed-service-for-timescaledb)
> *   [Restore data into Timescale Cloud](#restore-data-into-timescale-cloud)
> *   [Migrate schema post-data](#migrate-schema-post-data)
> *   [Recreate continuous aggregates](#recreate-continuous-aggregates) (optional)
> *   [Recreate policies](#recreate-policies) (optional)
> *   [Recompress previously compressed data](#recompress-data) (optional)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
*   [Migrate schema pre-data]: #migrate-schema-pre-data
*   [Restore hypertables in Timescale Cloud]: #restore-hypertables-in-timescale-cloud
*   [Copy data from Managed Service for TimescaleDB]: #copy-data-from-managed-service-for-timescaledb
*   [Restore data into Timescale Cloud]: #restore-data-into-timescale-cloud
*   [Migrate schema post-data]: #migrate-schema-post-data
*   [Recreate continuous aggregates]: #recreate-continuous-aggregates
*   [Recreate policies]: #recreate-policies
*   [Recompress previously compressed data]: #recompress-data
```

Author: Lana, how did you want the final page to look with this edit? This way seems to break Gatsby: 
<img width="662" alt="image" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/26616127/153267731-684e1bca-fa7e-498f-81be-8d5e855a19c3.png">

Reviewer: Oh, I'm an idiot 🤦‍♀️  Delete this suggestion, sorry. It was late in the day, clearly!

Author: Happens to us all 😄

*   Installed a client for connecting to PostgreSQL. These instructions use
    [psql][psql], but any client works.
*   Created a new empty database in Timescale Cloud. For more information, see the    
    [Install Timescale Cloud section][install-timescale-cloud].
*   Checked that you're running the same major version of PostgreSQL on both
    Managed Service for TimescaleDB, and Timescale Cloud. For more information about upgrading PostgreSQL on Managed Service for TimescaleDB, see the
    [upgrading PostgreSQL section][upgrading-postgresql].
*   Checked that you're running the same major version of TimescaleDB on both
    Managed Service for TimescaleDB and Timescale Cloud. For more information,
    see the [upgrading TimescaleDB section][upgrading-timescaledb].

<highlight type="note">
To speed up migration, compress your data. You can compress any chunks where
data is not being currently inserted, updated, or deleted. When you finish the
migration, you can decompress chunks as needed for normal operation. For more
information about compression and decompression, see the
[compression section](https://docs.timescale.com/timescaledb/latest/how-to-guides/compression/).

> </highlight>

Author: @lukas-bernert Does compressing your data prior to migration add any value for the schema-then-data method? I assumed not because `\COPY` decompresses the data anyway, but I don't actually know

Reviewer 2: correct, using \COPY decompresses data

This includes table and schema definitions, as well as information on sequences,
owners, and settings. This doesn't include Timescale-specific schemas.

<procedure>

### Migrating schema pre-data
1.  At the `psql` prompt, dump the schema pre-data from Managed Service for
    TimescaleDB into a `.bak` file, using your Managed Service for TimescaleDB
    connection details. Exclude Timescale-specific schemas. When you are
    prompted for a password, use your Managed Service for TimescaleDB
    credentials:
    ```sql
    pg_dump -U tsdbadmin -W \
    -h <mst_host> -p <mst_port> -Fc -v \
    --section=pre-data --exclude-schema="_timescaledb*" \
    -f <file-name-pre-data>.bak defaultdb
    ```
1.  Restore the dumped data from the `.bak` file into your Timescale Cloud
    database, using your Timescale Cloud connection details. To avoid
    permissions errors, include the `--no-owner` flag:
    ```sql
    pg_restore -U tsdbadmin -W \
    -h <cloud_host> -p <cloud_port> --no-owner -Fc \
    -v -d tsdb <file-name-pre-data>.bak
    ```

</procedure>

### Troubleshooting
If you see any of these errors during the migration process, you can safely

> ignore them.  The migration still occurs successfully.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
ignore them. The migration still occurs successfully.
```

## Migrate schema post-data
When you have migrated table and hypertable data, migrate your PostgreSQL schema
post-data. This includes information about constraints.

<procedure>

### Migrating schema post-data
1.  At the command prompt, dump the schema post-data from Managed Service for
    TimescaleDB into a `.bak` file, using your Managed Service for TimescaleDB
    connection details. Exclude Timescale-specific schemas. When you are
    prompted for a password, use your Managed Service for TimescaleDB
    credentials:
    ```sql
    pg_dump -U tsdbadmin -W \
    -h <mst_host> -p <mst_port> -Fc -v \
    --section=post-data --exclude-schema="_timescaledb*" \
    -f <file-name-post-data>.bak defaultdb
    ```
1.  Restore the dumped schema post-data from the `.bak` file into your Timescale
    Cloud database, using your Timescale Cloud connection details. To avoid
    permissions errors, include the `--no-owner` flag:
    ```sql
    pg_restore -U tsdbadmin -W \
    -h <cloud_host> -p <cloud_port> --no-owner -Fc \
    -v -d tsdb <file-name-post-data>.bak
    ```

</procedure>

### Troubleshooting
If you see any of these errors during the migration process, you can safely

> ignore them.  The migration still occurs successfully.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
ignore them. The migration still occurs successfully.
```

```bash
​​pg_restore: WARNING:  no privileges were granted for "<..>"
```

## Restore hypertables in Timescale Cloud
After pre-data migration, your hypertables from Managed Service for TimescaleDB
become regular PostgreSQL tables in Cloud. Recreate your hypertables in Cloud to
restore them.

<procedure>

### Restoring hypertables in Timescale Cloud
1.  Connect to your Timescale Cloud database:
    ```sql
    psql "postgres://tsdbadmin:<cloud_password>@<cloud_host>:<cloud_port>/tsdb?sslmode=require"
    ```
1.  Restore the hypertable:
    ```sql
    SELECT create_hypertable(
       '<table_name>', '<time_column_name>',
        chunk_time_interval =>
            INTERVAL '<chunk_time_interval>');
    ```

</procedure>

## Copy data from Managed Service for TimescaleDB
After restoring your hypertables, return to Managed Service for TimescaleDB to
copy your data, table by table.

<procedure>

### Copying data from Managed Service for TimescaleDB
1.  Connect to your Managed Service for TimescaleDB database:
    ```bash
    psql "postgres://tsdbadmin:<mst_password>@<mst_host>:<mst_port>/tsdb?sslmode=require"
    ```
1.  Dump the data from the first table into a `.csv` file:
    ```sql

>     COPY (SELECT * FROM <table-name>) TO <table-name>.csv CSV

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    \COPY (SELECT * FROM <table-name>) TO <table-name>.csv CSV
```

    ```
    Repeat for each table and hypertable you want to migrate.

</procedure>

<highlight type="note">
If your tables are very large, you can migrate each table in multiple pieces.
Split each table by time range, and copy each range individually. For example:

```sql

> COPY (SELECT * FROM <table-name> WHERE time > ‘2021-11-01’ AND time < ‘2011-11-02’) TO <table-name-date-range>.csv CSV

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
\COPY (SELECT * FROM <table-name> WHERE time > ‘2021-11-01’ AND time < ‘2011-11-02’) TO <table-name-date-range>.csv CSV
```

Reviewer 2: `\COPY` is used when running postgres copy from a client like psql
If you run copy server side (e.g. like pg_dump) you can use `COPY`

is not included by default. You must install the function.

<highlight type="important">
Both `timescaledb-parallel-copy` and `\COPY` decompress compressed data. If you
provisioned your Timescale Cloud storage for your compressed data, the
uncompressed data may take too much storage. To avoid this problem, periodically
recompress your data as you copy it in. For more information on compression, see
the [compression section](https://docs.timescale.com/timescaledb/latest/how-to-guides/compression/).
</highlight>

<procedure>

### Restoring data into Timescale Cloud with timescaledb-parallel-copy
1.  At the command prompt, install `timescaledb-parallel-copy`:
    ```bash
    go get github.com/timescale/timescaledb-parallel-copy/cmd/timescaledb-parallel-copy
    ```
1.  Use `timescaledb-parallel-copy` to import data into
    your Cloud database. Set `<num_workers>` to twice the number of CPUs in your
    database. For example, if you have 4 CPUs, `<num_workers>` should be `8`.
    ```bash
    timescaledb-parallel-copy \
    --connection "host=<cloud_host> \
    user=tsdbadmin password=<cloud_password> \
    port=<cloud_port> \

>     sslmode="require" \

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    sslmode=require" \
```

    --db-name tsdb \
    --table <table_name> \
    --file <file_name>.csv \
    --workers <num_workers> \
    --reporting-period 30s
    ```
    Repeat for each table and hypertable you want to migrate.

</procedure>

<procedure>

### Restoring data into Timescale Cloud with COPY
1.  Connect to your Timescale Cloud database:
    ```sql
    psql "postgres://tsdbadmin:<cloud_password>@<cloud_host>:<cloud_port>/tsdb?sslmode=require"
    ```
1.  Restore the data to your Timescale Cloud database:
    ```sql

>     COPY <table-name> FROM '<table-name>.csv' WITH (FORMAT CSV);

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    \COPY <table-name> FROM '<table-name>.csv' WITH (FORMAT CSV);
```

    -h <mst_host> -p <mst_port> -Fc -v \
    --section=post-data --exclude-schema="_timescaledb*" \
    -f <file-name-post-data>.bak defaultdb
    ```
1.  Restore the dumped schema post-data from the `.bak` file into your Timescale
    Cloud database, using your Timescale Cloud connection details. To avoid
    permissions errors, include the `--no-owner` flag:
    ```bash
    pg_restore -U tsdbadmin -W \
    -h <cloud_host> -p <cloud_port> --no-owner -Fc \
    -v -d tsdb <file-name-post-data>.bak
    ```

</procedure>

### Troubleshooting
If you see these errors during the migration process, you can safely ignore
them. The migration still occurs successfully.

```bash
pg_restore: error: could not execute query: ERROR:  relation "<relation_name>" already exists
```

```bash
pg_restore: error: could not execute query: ERROR:  trigger "ts_insert_blocker" for relation "<relation_name>" already exists
```

## Recreate continuous aggregates
By default, continuous aggregates aren't migrated when you transfer your schema
and data separately. Restore them by recreating the continuous aggregate
definitions and recomputing the results on your Cloud database.

<procedure>

> ### Recreating continuous aggregates

Reviewer 2: should we add the warning about migrating CAGGs here as well?

Author: Adding a modified (shorter) version. Hopefully no user will get this far if CAGGs are a problem for them. To avoid that, I'm adding the full warning to the top of the page for anyone who gets here without passing the index page.

Reviewer 2: it's probably mostly useful for users who first want to read through the docs before actually migrating.

    your database with enough space for all your data.
*   Checked that any other PostgreSQL extensions you use are compatible with
    Timescale Cloud. For more information, see the [list of compatible
    extensions][extensions]. Install your other PostgreSQL extensions.
*   Checked that you're running the same major version of PostgreSQL on both
    Timescale Cloud and your source database. For information about upgrading
    PostgreSQL on your source database, see the [upgrade instructions for
    self-hosted TimescaleDB][upgrading-postgresql-self-hosted] and [Managed
    Service for TimescaleDB][upgrading-postgresql].
*   Checked that you're running the same major version of TimescaleDB on both
    Timescale Cloud and your source database. For more information, see the
    [upgrading TimescaleDB section][upgrading-timescaledb].

## Migrate schema pre-data
Migrate your pre-data from your source database to Timescale Cloud. This
includes table and schema definitions, as well as information on sequences,
owners, and settings. This doesn't include Timescale-specific schemas.

<procedure>

### Migrating schema pre-data

> 1.  Dump the schema pre-data from your source database into a `.bak` file, using

Author: ```suggestion
1.  Dump the schema pre-data from your source database into a `dump_pre_data.bak` file, using
```

    your source database connection details. Exclude Timescale-specific schemas.
    If you are prompted for a password, use your source database credentials:
    ```bash
    pg_dump -U <SOURCE_DB_USERNAME> -W \
    -h <SOURCE_DB_HOST> -p <SOURCE_DB_PORT> -Fc -v \
    --section=pre-data --exclude-schema="_timescaledb*" \

>     -f <FILENAME_PRE_DATA>.bak <DATABASE_NAME>

Author: ```suggestion
    -f dump_pre_data.bak <DATABASE_NAME>
```

    ```

> 1.  Restore the dumped data from the `.bak` file into your Timescale Cloud

Author: ```suggestion
1.  Restore the dumped data from the `dump_pre_data.bak` file into your Timescale Cloud
```

    database, using your Timescale Cloud connection details. To avoid
    permissions errors, include the `--no-owner` flag:
    ```bash
    pg_restore -U tsdbadmin -W \
    -h <CLOUD_HOST> -p <CLOUD_PORT> --no-owner -Fc \

>     -v -d tsdb <FILENAME_PRE_DATA>.bak

Author: ```suggestion
    -v -d tsdb dump_pre_data.bak
```

1.  Connect to your Timescale Cloud database:
    ```sql
    psql "postgres://tsdbadmin:<CLOUD_PASSWORD>@<CLOUD_HOST>:<CLOUD_PORT>/tsdb?sslmode=require"
    ```
1.  Restore the hypertable:
    ```sql
    SELECT create_hypertable(
       '<TABLE_NAME>', '<TIME_COLUMN_NAME>',
        chunk_time_interval =>
            INTERVAL '<CHUNK_TIME_INTERVAL>');
    ```

</procedure>

## Copy data from the source database
After restoring your hypertables, return to your source database to copy your
data, table by table.

<procedure>

### Copying data from your source database
1.  Connect to your source database:
    ```bash
    psql "postgres://<SOURCE_DB_USERNAME>:<SOURCE_DB_PASSWORD>@<SOURCE_DB_HOST>:<SOURCE_DB_PORT>/<SOURCE_DB_NAME>?sslmode=require"
    ```
1.  Dump the data from the first table into a `.csv` file:
    ```sql
    \COPY (SELECT * FROM <TABLE_NAME>) TO <TABLE_NAME>.csv CSV
    ```
    Repeat for each table and hypertable you want to migrate.

</procedure>

<highlight type="note">
If your tables are very large, you can migrate each table in multiple pieces.
Split each table by time range, and copy each range individually. For example:

```sql

> \COPY (SELECT * FROM <TABLE_NAME> WHERE time > ‘2021-11-01’ AND time < ‘2011-11-02’) TO <TABLE_NAME_DATE_RANGE>.csv CSV

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
\COPY (SELECT * FROM <TABLE_NAME> WHERE time > '2021-11-01' AND time < '2011-11-02') TO <TABLE_NAME_DATE_RANGE>.csv CSV
```

```
</highlight>

## Restore data into Timescale Cloud
When you have copied your data into `.csv` files, you can restore it to
Timescale Cloud by copying from the `.csv` files. There are two methods: using
regular PostgreSQL [`COPY`][copy], or using the TimescaleDB
[`timescaledb-parallel-copy`][timescaledb-parallel-copy] function. In tests,
`timescaledb-parallel-copy` is 16% faster. The `timescaledb-parallel-copy` tool
is not included by default. You must install the function.

<highlight type="important">

> Both `timescaledb-parallel-copy` and `COPY` decompress compressed data. If you
> provisioned your Timescale Cloud storage for your compressed data, the
> uncompressed data may take too much storage. To avoid this problem, periodically
> recompress your data as you copy it in. For more information on compression, see
> the [compression section](https://docs.timescale.com/timescaledb/latest/how-to-guides/compression/).

Author: ```suggestion
Because `\COPY` decompresses data, any compressed data in your source 
database has been decompressed. If you
provisioned your Timescale Cloud storage for your compressed data, the
uncompressed data may take too much storage. To avoid this problem, periodically
recompress your data as you copy it in. For more information on compression, see
the [compression section](https://docs.timescale.com/timescaledb/latest/how-to-guides/compression/).
```

Author: @lukas-bernert if you like this rewrite then I'll add it and we can (finally!) merge the entire thing

Reviewer 2: lgtm

> </highlight>

Reviewer 2: we need to restructure this

At this point "importing CSV data" the data is already uncompressed
The previous step "exporting CSV data" was the one that uncompressed compressed data

While it makes sense to keep this warning at this place (because it's mainly about having enough storage size on the destination) we shoul reframe the first sentence. It's the export that decompresses not the import.

    ```bash
    timescaledb-parallel-copy \
    --connection "host=<CLOUD_HOST> \
    user=tsdbadmin password=<CLOUD_PASSWORD> \
    port=<CLOUD_PORT> \
    sslmode=require" \
    --db-name tsdb \
    --table <TABLE_NAME> \
    --file <FILE_NAME>.csv \
    --workers <NUM_WORKERS> \
    --reporting-period 30s
    ```
    Repeat for each table and hypertable you want to migrate.

</procedure>

<procedure>

### Restoring data into Timescale Cloud with COPY
1.  Connect to your Timescale Cloud database:
    ```sql
    psql "postgres://tsdbadmin:<CLOUD_PASSWORD>@<CLOUD_HOST>:<CLOUD_PORT>/tsdb?sslmode=require"
    ```
1.  Restore the data to your Timescale Cloud database:
    ```sql
    \COPY <TABLE_NAME> FROM '<TABLE_NAME>.csv' WITH (FORMAT CSV);
    ```
    Repeat for each table and hypertable you want to migrate.

</procedure>

## Migrate schema post-data
When you have migrated your table and hypertable data, migrate your PostgreSQL
schema post-data. This includes information about constraints.

<procedure>

### Migrating schema post-data
1.  At the command prompt, dump the schema post-data from your source database

>     into a `.bak` file, using your source database connection details. Exclude

Author: ```suggestion
    into a `dump_post_data.bak` file, using your source database connection details. Exclude
```

    Timescale-specific schemas. If you are prompted for a password, use your
    source database credentials:
    ```bash
    pg_dump -U <SOURCE_DB_USERNAME> -W \
    -h <SOURCE_DB_HOST> -p <SOURCE_DB_PORT> -Fc -v \
    --section=post-data --exclude-schema="_timescaledb*" \

>     -f <FILENAME_POST_DATA>.bak <DATABASE_NAME>

Author: ```suggestion
    -f dump_post_data.bak <DATABASE_NAME>
```

    ```

> 1.  Restore the dumped schema post-data from the `.bak` file into your Timescale

Author: ```suggestion
1.  Restore the dumped schema post-data from the `dump_post_data.bak` file into your Timescale
```

    Cloud database, using your Timescale Cloud connection details. To avoid
    permissions errors, include the `--no-owner` flag:
    ```bash
    pg_restore -U tsdbadmin -W \
    -h <CLOUD_HOST> -p <CLOUD_PORT> --no-owner -Fc \

>     -v -d tsdb <FILENAME_POST_DATA>.bak

Author: ```suggestion
    -v -d tsdb dump_post_data.bak
```

pg_restore: while PROCESSING TOC:
pg_restore: from TOC entry 6239; 0 0 COMMENT EXTENSION timescaledb 
pg_restore: error: could not execute query: ERROR:  must be owner of extension timescaledb
```

If you have continuous aggregates, you may get the following error. Ignore this
as you will [restore your aggregates](#recreate-continuous-aggregates) in a
later procedure.

```bash
pg_restore: error: could not execute query: ERROR:  relation "_timescaledb_internal._materialized_hypertable_x" does not exist
```

You can also ignore:

```bash
​​pg_restore: WARNING:  no privileges were granted for "<..>"
```

## Restore hypertables in Timescale Cloud

After pre-data migration, your hypertables from Managed Service for TimescaleDB
become regular PostgreSQL tables in Cloud. Recreate your hypertables in Cloud to
restore them.

### Restoring hypertables in Timescale Cloud

<procedure>

1. Connect to your Cloud database using psql:

   ```bash
   # Use your Cloud credentials and connection details.
   psql “postgres://tsdbadmin:<cloud_password>@<cloud_host>:<cloud_port>/tsdb?sslmode=require”
   ```

1. In psql, run:

   ```bash
   SELECT create_hypertable(

>        '<table-name>', '<time-column-name>', 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
       '<table-name>', '<time-column-name>', 
```
I'd suggest staying consistent with variable naming across these docs.

e.g. `variable_name` vs. `variable-name`

Reviewer 2: sorry, I know this is how I documented it in my initial outline doc

Author: ```suggestion
       '<table_name>', '<time_column_name>', 
```

I think this is what you meant right? 😄

        chunk_time_interval => 

>             INTERVAL '<chunk interval used in your old database>');

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
            INTERVAL '<chunk_time_interval>');
```

   ```

</procedure>

## Copy data from Managed Service for TimescaleDB

After restoring your hypertables, return to Managed Service for TimescaleDB to

> copy your tables one by one.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
copy your tables' data one by one.
```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
copy your data one by one.
```

    (1 row)
    ```

    Keep the results for a later step.

1. Connect to your Cloud database using psql if you aren't already connected:

   ```bash
   # Use your Cloud credentials and connection details.
   psql “postgres://tsdbadmin:<cloud_password>@<cloud_host>:<cloud_port>/tsdb?sslmode=require”
   ```

1. In psql, use the information from Step 2 to recreate each continuous
   aggregate definition:

   ```bash
   # Replace <view_name> and <view_definition> with each result from Step 2.
   CREATE MATERIALIZED VIEW <view_name>
	WITH (timescaledb.continuous) AS
		<view_definition>
   ```

</procedure>

## Recreate policies

Policies aren't migrated when you transfer your schema and data separately. 
Recreate them on your Cloud database.

### Recreating policies

<procedure>

1. Use psql to connect to your Managed Service for TimescaleDB database if 
   you aren't already connected:

   ```bash
   # Use your Managed Service for TimescaleDB credentials and connection details.
   psql “postgres://tsdbadmin:<mst_password>@<mst_host>:<mst_port>/tsdb?sslmode=require”
   ```

> 1. In psql, get a list of your existing continuous aggregate definitions:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. In psql, get a list of your existing policies:
```

- [Copy data from Managed Service for TimescaleDB](#copy-data-from-managed-service-for-timescaledb)
- [Restore data into Timescale Cloud](#restore-data-into-timescale-cloud)
- [Migrate schema post-data](#migrate-schema-post-data)
- [Recreate continuous aggregates](#recreate-continuous-aggregates) (optional)
- [Recreate policies](#recreate-policies) (optional)
- [Recompress previously compressed data](#recompress-data) (optional)

<highlight type="warning"> 
Depending on your database size and  network speed, steps that involve copying 
data may take several hours. You can continue reading from your old database
during this time, though performance may be slower. If writes are made to your
old tables while `\COPY` is running, the new writes might not be transferred to Timescale Cloud. Plan your migration accordingly to avoid data loss. 
</highlight>

## Prerequisites

- Check that the PostgreSQL utilities [`pg_dump`][pg_dump] and
  [`pg_restore`][pg_restore] are installed on your system:

  ```bash
  pg_dump --version
  ```

  ```bash
  pg_restore --version
  ```

- Check that you have a client for connecting to PostgreSQL. These instructions

>   assume you are using [psql][psql], but any client will work.

Author: ```suggestion
  assume that you're using [psql][psql], but any client will work.
```

as you will [restore your aggregates](#recreate-continuous-aggregates) in a
later procedure.

```bash
pg_restore: error: could not execute query: ERROR:  relation "_timescaledb_internal._materialized_hypertable_x" does not exist
```

You can also ignore:

```bash
​​pg_restore: WARNING:  no privileges were granted for "<..>"
```

## Restore hypertables in Timescale Cloud

After pre-data migration, your hypertables from Managed Service for TimescaleDB
become regular PostgreSQL tables in Cloud. Recreate your hypertables in Cloud to
restore them.

### Restoring hypertables in Timescale Cloud

<procedure>

1. Connect to your Cloud database using psql:

   ```bash
   # Use your Cloud credentials and connection details.
   psql “postgres://tsdbadmin:<cloud_password>@<cloud_host>:<cloud_port>/tsdb?sslmode=require”
   ```

1. In psql, run:

   ```bash
   SELECT create_hypertable(
       '<table_name>', '<time_column_name>', 
        chunk_time_interval => 
            INTERVAL '<chunk_time_interval>');
   ```

</procedure>

## Copy data from Managed Service for TimescaleDB

After restoring your hypertables, return to Managed Service for TimescaleDB to

> copy your data, table by table

Author: ```suggestion
copy your data, table by table.
```

<highlight type="warning">
Depending on your database size and network speed, steps that involve copying
data can take a very long time. You can continue reading from your source 
database during this time, though performance could be slower. To avoid this
problem, fork your database and migrate your data from the fork. If you write to
the tables in your source database during the migration, the new writes might
not be transferred to Timescale Cloud. To avoid this problem, see the section on
[migrating an active 

> database](http://docs.timescale.com/cloud/latest/migrate-mst-cloud/#migrate-an-active-database).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[migrating an active database](http://docs.timescale.com/cloud/latest/migrate-mst-cloud/#migrate-an-active-database).
```

    Timescale Cloud. For more information, see the [list of compatible
    extensions][extensions]. Install your other PostgreSQL extensions.
*   Checked that you're running the same major version of PostgreSQL on both
    Timescale Cloud and your source database. For information about upgrading
    PostgreSQL on your source database, see the [upgrade instructions for
    self-hosted TimescaleDB][upgrading-postgresql-self-hosted] and [Managed
    Service for TimescaleDB][upgrading-postgresql].
*   Checked that you're running the same major version of TimescaleDB on both

>     Timescale Cloud and yoru source database. For more information, see the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    Timescale Cloud and your source database. For more information, see the
```

`COPY` operation. For more information about recompressing data, see the
[compression section][compression].

> ## Update table statistics

Reviewer: Can we keep the comments out of the code blocks, please? Add any extra info to the exposition instead.

Author: Understood! Was this referring to a specific example? I looked for the error around here and couldn't find it, but maybe I glazed right over it

Reviewer: Oh, it's possible I misread, too.

Author: No problem! Good to know in the future 🙂 just wanted to make sure I wasn't missing anything I had to fix.
